Dear Judges,

my name is Erik and I am 27 years old. I am currently studying computer science at Mannheim University of Applied Sciences in Germany. I am also working as an iOS developer in a student-job at the same time. I have first learned to code in late 2015 and in early 2016 I began teaching myself Swift. It has transformed my life and I have found my true passion. But it was not always like that...

Already in 2009, I received my high school diploma. Even though in hindsight the signs had always pointed me towards becoming a developer, I did not have the vantage point to recognize this bigger picture. Therefore I followed the career paths that were set out as examples to me while growing up. During my exchange year, I could take part in business studies and economics courses. As I had enjoyed them I decided to enroll in business administration at university. Eventually, I realized I did not deeply enjoy the contents I was taught, nor the positions I would one day be able to pursue. That was when I finally began listening to what my heart wanted. Just like Steve Jobs once said, "If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. Don’t settle.". 

In the end what I needed to be tipped over, was a lucky coincidence. At a birthday party, I met an old friend, who had just started studying computer science. She told me about the type of type of person best suited for the subject. Mentally I was ticking off everything she said; it was an exact description of myself. The next day I enrolled. I feel like I have not even been myself before that day.

Overall it is quite interesting how coincidences have shaped my life. I received my first Mac in 2006 after I had randomly met another old acquaintance at Heathrow Airport in London. We were both spending an exchange-year in England but were not aware, as we had not seen each other for a while. On the flight back to Hamburg we were even randomly seated in the same row. Time for him to show me his new Intel-based MacBook that had just been released. It was my first time seeing OS X and I knew I had to have a Mac right there. 

Luckily I was fortunate enough to receive one for my birthday and christmas. To this day I use the standard wallpaper from Tiger and I have watched every keynote since. Shortly after the iPhone was introduced and when the App Store launched a year later in 2008 I really wanted to be able to make apps. But I did not listen to myself nor where to start. And so the next 7 years ensued until the next lucky conincidence... But one thing did not change in all those years. Since the day I booted my MacBook I have aspired to one day be a part of Apple.